CodeLite - Open-source, cross platform (Windows, Linux & Mac OS) C/C++ IDE written with wxWidgets and released under the GPL license. Features context sensitive help, auto-completion, refactoring,and a full debugging GUI. CodeLite is based on plugins so it can be extended very easily 
Eclipse -  is an integrated development environment (IDE) for Windows, Linux & Mac OS. It contains a base workspace and an extensible plug-in system for customizing the environment. Written mostly in Java, Eclipse can be used to develop applications. By means of various plug-ins, Eclipse may also be used to develop applications in other programming languages: C, C++, COBOL, Fortran, JavaScript, Perl, PHP, Python, Ruby and other. It can also be used to develop packages for the software Mathematica. Development environments include the Eclipse Java development tools (JDT) for Java and Scala, Eclipse CDT for C/C++ and Eclipse PDT for PHP, among others.
Microsoft Visual C++ ( only Windows )- A powerful environment for creating modern applications. A clean, fast and powerful development environment will let you focus on creating value and accomplish task quicker. Visual Studio consolidates all tasks involved in a software development project into a single integrated development environment with innovative capabilities to make development more productive for any application that you target.
Xcode ( only Mac OS ) - Apple's official IDE for Mac OS X. Xcode is an integrated development environment (IDE) containing a suite of software development tools developed by Apple	for developing software for OS X and iOS. First released in 2003, the latest stable release is version 6.0 and is available via the Mac App Store free of charge for Mac OS X Lion and OS X Mountain Lion users.[1] Registered developers can download preview releases and previous versions of the suite through the Apple Developer website.
KDevelop ( only Unix and Linux ) - KDevelop is a free software integrated development environment (IDE) for the KDE Platform on Unix-like computer operating systems. KDevelop includes no compiler, instead it uses an external compiler such as GCC to produce executable code.
CodeForge ( only Unix and Linux) - CodeForge IDE is an Integrated Development Environment that provides its users full project management and a complete edit/compile/debug cycle support for over 30 programming languages. CodeForge IDE's advanced project management features allow it to scale from simple to extremely large and multi-language as well as multi-user projects. Total integration between various IDE tools provide the programmer with unprecedented control over the development process.